# Introduction and Business Problem

Restaurants are an integral part of a cities economy. 
They help feed business meetings, they help establish an areas culture and identity, 
often times they mark the beginnings of important relationships etc.. 
Unfortunately, nearly 80% of new restaurants close within the first 5 years of opening! 
Often times these closures happen for the actions a new restaurant owner before even opening. 
Among the largest problems is a matter of location.

If you are interested in becoming a restaurant owner or in investing in restaurants it is in important to understand where and what type 
of restaurant will be most successful in that city.
Ottawa is the capital of Canada with a deep and rich history. 
Many restaurants have come and go and some have been for around since 1849. 
Ottawa is a quickly growing city, outpacing both Canada and Ontario in population percentage increases year after year. 
This makes it a city for eager and passionate immigrants and residents ready to open
and establish restaurants and for investors who are looking to capitalize on the growth opportunities.

This project aims to explore, analyze, cluster and predict where and what type of restaurant would be successful 
in Ottawa using several supervised and unsupervised methods such as, logistic regression, 
K-Means and continuous time series Markov Models. It will utilize the Foursquare API to leverage 
its venue and rating information, an ethnic restaurant data set provided by a Reddit user 
(https://www.reddit.com/r/ottawa/comments/882dft/i_made_an_excel_spreadsheet_with_all_the_ethnic/) 
will be used as to avoid chains and other franchises which may effect result outcomes as well having 
access to reviews and several data sets from OpenData Ottawa (http://data.ottawa.ca/) which will gather 
neighborhood population and the names of those neighborhoods. To support the analysis and it will visualize 
the analysis using Folium and Seaborn.

The success of a restaurant lies in having a great product, an appropriate customer and the correct environment. 
Let data find the most probable environment for the restaurant to succeed!
